Add "how to" for the getter Argument Clinic directive. (#1232)
python/devguide: development-tools/clinic.rst

.. versionadded:: 3.13

.. _clinic-howto-getter:

> How to generate getter with Argument Clinic
> --------------------------------------------

Reviewer: This whole page is about Argument Clinic, we can make the title shorter:
```suggestion
How to generate a getter
------------------------
```

You can use the ``@getter`` directive to generate an "impl" function

> to define a getter.

Reviewer 2: It might be worth it to link to the C API docs here.

https://docs.python.org/3/c-api/structures.html#c.PyGetSetDef.get

Author: Done!

> You can use ``@getter`` directive to generate "impl" function
> to defining getter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the ``@getter`` directive to generate an "impl" function
to define a getter.
```

> to define a `getter <https://docs.python.org/3/c-api/structures.html#c.PyGetSetDef.get>`_.

Reviewer 2: Hm, when I follow the link, I get a feeling we shouldn't link to the `getter` specifically, but rather the whole `PyGetSetDef`. For someone unfamiliar with getters and setters, it might be confusing to arrive at the minimalistic docs of the `get` member :)

```suggestion
to define a `getter <https://docs.python.org/3/c-api/structures.html#c.PyGetSetDef>`_.
```

Example from :cpy-file:`Modules/_io/bufferedio.c`::
Note that this example is a mixture using the :ref:`@critical_section <clinic-howto-critical-sections>` directive

> to achieve thread safety without causing deadlocks between threads

Author: > a simpler example should be chosen instead

Yeah, I think that we should replace it at the near future :)
See: https://github.com/python/devguide/pull/1232#discussion_r1408459396

    @critical_section
    @getter
    _io._Buffered.closed
    [clinic start generated code]*/

> The generate glue code looks like this.
> Note that this example is mixture usage with ``@critical_section`` directive
> to achieve thread safety without causing deadlocks between threads:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The generated glue code looks like this.
Note that this example is a mixture using the ``@critical_section`` directive
to achieve thread safety without causing deadlocks between threads:
```

> to achieve thread safety without causing deadlocks between threads:

Reviewer 2: To me this reads slightly weird; I expected the generated code snippet to follow straight after the first sentence! :) Also, to me the "note" sentence belongs _before_ the clinic input, not after it.

Moreover, is the `@critical_section` needed for the example? If not, I think we should remove it, so the example is stripped down to the bare minimum. OTOH, if all getters actually have a critical section (probably most of them do, @colesbury?), perhaps the `@getter` directive should imply `@critical_section`; it would reduce clinic input boiler plate code.

Author: > Moreover, is the @critical_section needed for the example?

If we attach the real example, "yes"

> perhaps the @getter directive should imply @critical_section; it would reduce clinic input boiler plate code.

I think that it should be optional if possible.

Reviewer 2: Ok, so let's leave the `@critical_section` directive in the example for now. I still would like to mention that _before_ the clinic input, though. Also, we should link to the `@critical_section` how-to.

.. versionadded:: 3.13

.. _clinic-howto-getter:

How to generate a getter
------------------------

You can use the ``@getter`` directive to generate an "impl" function

> that defines a `getter <https://docs.python.org/3/c-api/structures.html#c.PyGetSetDef>`_.

Reviewer 3: I think this _should_ link correctly due to intersphinx:

```suggestion
that defines a :c:func:`getter <PyGetSetDef>`.
```

Reviewer 3: Oh, my bad, I think it should be this instead:

```suggestion
that defines a :c:type:`getter <PyGetSetDef>`.
```

This example --- taken from :cpy-file:`Modules/_io/bufferedio.c` ---
shows the use of ``@getter`` in combination with
the :ref:`@critical_section <clinic-howto-critical-sections>` directive

> (which achieves thread safety without causing deadlocks between threads)::

Reviewer 3: You've shown me how to _use_ a `getter` here, but you haven't told me anywhere what a `getter` function actually _is_ or why I'd use it. I assume it's like a getter of a property, right? Could you go into that a little bit more? :)

You could maybe give a REPL example of how the generated C extension behaves at the Python level after it's been compiled?

Author: Hmm, There might be some issue with markup

```
/home/runner/work/devguide/devguide/development-tools/clinic.rst:2009: WARNING: c:func reference target not found: PyGetSetDef
/home/runner/work/devguide/devguide/development-tools/clinic.rst:2039: WARNING: py:meth reference target not found: property.getter
```

.. versionadded:: 3.13

.. _clinic-howto-getter:

How to generate a getter
------------------------

> You can use the ``@getter`` directive to generate an "impl" function
> that defines a :c:type:`getter <PyGetSetDef>`.

Reviewer 2: IMO, we should explain getters first, and then introduce the directive.

```suggestion
"Getters" are C functions that facilitate property-like access for a type.
See :c:type:`getter <PyGetSetDef>` for details.
You can use the ``@getter`` directive to generate an "impl" function for a getter.
```

This example --- taken from :cpy-file:`Modules/_io/bufferedio.c` ---
shows the use of ``@getter`` in combination with
the :ref:`@critical_section <clinic-howto-critical-sections>` directive
(which achieves thread safety without causing deadlocks between threads)::

    /*[clinic input]
    @critical_section
    @getter

>     _io._Buffered.closed
>     [clinic start generated code]*/
> 
> The generated glue code looks like this:
> 
> .. code-block:: c
> 
>     static PyObject *
>     _io__Buffered_closed_get(buffered *self, void *context)
>     {
>         PyObject *return_value = NULL;
> 
>         Py_BEGIN_CRITICAL_SECTION(self);
>         return_value = _io__Buffered_closed_get_impl(self);

Reviewer 3: There doesn't seem to be an `_io._Buffered` class at runtime AFAICS, and in the Python REPL example below you use `_io._BufferedIOBase`. Did you maybe mean to write this?

```suggestion
    _io._BufferedIOBase.closed
    [clinic start generated code]*/

The generated glue code looks like this:

.. code-block:: c

    static PyObject *
    _io__BufferedIOBase_closed_get(buffered *self, void *context)
    {
        PyObject *return_value = NULL;

        Py_BEGIN_CRITICAL_SECTION(self);
        return_value = _io__BufferedIOBase_closed_get_impl(self);
```

Author: Well, that's because..

https://github.com/python/cpython/blob/07ebd46f9e55ed2f18c5ea2a79ec5054bc26b915/Modules/_io/bufferedio.c#L2529

https://github.com/python/cpython/blob/07ebd46f9e55ed2f18c5ea2a79ec5054bc26b915/Modules/_io/bufferedio.c#L2589

https://github.com/python/cpython/blob/07ebd46f9e55ed2f18c5ea2a79ec5054bc26b915/Modules/_io/bufferedio.c#L2707

Reviewer 3: I see, thanks! Feel free to ignore me then (though if we can think of an example that _does_ have a one-to-one correlation with a Python object at runtime, that would be perfect! :)

        Py_END_CRITICAL_SECTION();

        return return_value;
    }

And then the implementation will work the same as the Python method which is

> decorated by `property <https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#property>`_.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
decorated by :py:func:`property`.
```

> .. code-block:: python

Reviewer 3: REPL examples should use `pycon`, which stands for "Python console", and instructs Sphinx to apply syntax highlighting tailored for the Python REPL

```suggestion
.. code-block:: pycon
```

Author: Oh not PyCon.. lol

Reviewer 3: I absolutely thought it was a typo the first time I saw `.. code-block:: pycon` 😆

.. versionadded:: 3.13

.. _clinic-howto-getter:

How to generate a getter
------------------------

> "Getters" are C functions that facilitate property-like access for a type.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
"Getters" are C functions that facilitate property-like access for a class.
```

See :c:type:`getter <PyGetSetDef>` for details.

> You can use the ``@getter`` directive to generate an "impl" function for a getter.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can use the ``@getter`` directive to generate an "impl" function for a
getter using Argument Clinic.
```

> This example --- taken from :cpy-file:`Modules/_io/bufferedio.c` ---

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This example -- taken from :cpy-file:`Modules/_io/bufferedio.c` --
```

shows the use of ``@getter`` in combination with
the :ref:`@critical_section <clinic-howto-critical-sections>` directive
(which achieves thread safety without causing deadlocks between threads)::

    /*[clinic input]
    @critical_section
    @getter
    _io._Buffered.closed
    [clinic start generated code]*/

The generated glue code looks like this:

.. code-block:: c

    static PyObject *
    _io__Buffered_closed_get(buffered *self, void *context)
    {
        PyObject *return_value = NULL;

        Py_BEGIN_CRITICAL_SECTION(self);
        return_value = _io__Buffered_closed_get_impl(self);
        Py_END_CRITICAL_SECTION();

        return return_value;
    }

> And then the implementation will work the same as the Python method which is

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
And then the implementation will work the same as a Python method which is
```
